=head1 OVERVIEW

A module for PDL providing cluster counting for 2-d,
site, statistical models.
This module is not on the CPAN.

=cut

=head1 NAME

PDL::StatPhys::Cluster - routines for cluster counting

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Cluster counting, and some percolations routines. These
routines find the clusters on a 2-d array of integers where
a given integer represents and empty site and any other value represents an occupied
site. Two occupied sites are in the same cluster if they are
nearest neighbors.  The algorithm is a weighted union-find
with path compression known as the Hoshen-Kopelman
algorithm.

See also the connected component function L<PDL::Image2D/ccNcompt>.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

        use PDL;
        use PDL::StatPhys::Cluster;
        use PDL::NiceSlice;
        
        $c = pdl long , [ 
            [1,1,0,1,1],
            [1,1,0,0,0],
            [1,1,0,1,0],
            [0,0,0,0,0],
            [1,1,1,0,1],
            [1,1,1,0,1]
           ];
      ($max_cluster_size, $num_clusters, $cluster_size_distribution) = clustdist($c);

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 clustdist()

Example:

=for example

  ($max_cluster_size, $num_clusters, $cluster_size_distribution) = clustdist($lattice);

Usage:

=for usage

  ($max_cluster_size, $num_clusters, $cluster_size_distribution) = clustdist($lattice, {OPTIONS} );

Options:

=for options

  closed_site => n
  value of a closed (unoccupied) site. All other values are considered open (occupied).
  Default 0.

=for ref

Find clusters in $lattice and compute the distribution of cluster masses,
where the mass is the number of open sites in a cluster.
The return values are the size of the largest cluster, the number of clusters, and a 1-d pdl
containing the cluster counts. The ith element is the number of
clusters of mass i-1. (There are no clusters of mass zero.)

=head2 site_perc_sample()

Usage:

=for usage

  site_perc_sample($lattice, $p,  {OPTIONS} );

Options:

=for options

  open_site => n
  value of an open (occupied) site.  closed (unoccupied) sites have value zero.
  Default 1. If the lattice is a piddle of bytes, you could set this to 255 for
  instance so that occupied sites are represented by white in an image.

=for ref

Sample a site percolation process with site density $p. This routine is simple and short
and uses the builtin perl RNG via PDL. A temporary piddle of doubles with the same dimensions
as $lattice is created. The input piddle can have any shape. Each element of $lattice is set
to open_site with probability $p and to 0 with probability 1-$p.

Example:

=for example

    $lattice = byte zeroes(300,300);
    site_perc_sample($lattice, .5926);
    
=head1 CONSTANTS

=head2 PDL::Cluster::SITE_PERC_2D_PC

The threshold for site percolation on a 2d square lattice. 0.5927462

=cut
=head1 BUGS

None known.

=head1 AUTHOR

This file copyright (C) 2012, John Lapeyre (jlapeyre@cpan.org), 
All rights reserved. There is no warranty. You are allowed
to redistribute this software / documentation under certain
conditions. For details, see the file COPYING in the PDL
distribution. If this file is separated from the PDL
distribution, the copyright notice should be included in the
file.

=cut
